# Lightweight Transformers for Clinical Natural Language Processing

链接: http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.04725v1

原文摘要:
Specialised pre-trained language models are becoming more frequent in NLP
since they can potentially outperform models trained on generic texts. BioBERT
and BioClinicalBERT are two examples of such models that have shown promise in
medical NLP tasks. Many of these models are overparametrised and
resource-intensive, but thanks to techniques like Knowledge Distillation (KD),
it is possible to create smaller versions that perform almost as well as their
larger counterparts. In this work, we specifically focus on development of
compact language models for processing clinical texts (i.e. progress notes,
discharge summaries etc). We developed a number of efficient lightweight
clinical transformers using knowledge distillation and continual learning, with
the number of parameters ranging from 15 million to 65 million. These models
performed comparably to larger models such as BioBERT and ClinicalBioBERT and
significantly outperformed other compact models trained on general or
biomedical data. Our extensive evaluation was done across several standard
datasets and covered a wide range of clinical text-mining tasks, including
Natural Language Inference, Relation Extraction, Named Entity Recognition, and
Sequence Classification. To our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive
study specifically focused on creating efficient and compact transformers for
clinical NLP tasks. The models and code used in this study can be found on our
Huggingface profile at https://huggingface.co/nlpie and Github page at
