# LLM-CARD: Towards a Description and Landscape of Large Language Models

链接: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17011v1

原文摘要:
With the rapid growth of the Natural Language Processing (NLP) field, a vast
variety of Large Language Models (LLMs) continue to emerge for diverse NLP
tasks. As more papers are published, researchers and developers face the
challenge of information overload. Thus, developing a system that can
automatically extract and organise key information about LLMs from academic
papers is particularly important. The standard format for documenting
information about LLMs is the LLM model card (\textbf{LLM-Card}). We propose a
method for automatically generating LLM model cards from scientific
publications. We use Named Entity Recognition (\textbf{NER}) and Relation
Extraction (\textbf{RE}) methods that automatically extract key information
about LLMs from the papers, helping researchers to access information about
LLMs efficiently. These features include model \textit{licence}, model
\textit{name}, and model \textit{application}. With these features, we can form
a model card for each paper. We processed 106 academic papers by defining three
dictionaries -- LLM's name, licence, and application. 11,051 sentences were
extracted through dictionary lookup, and the dataset was constructed through
manual review of the final selection of 129 sentences with a link between the
name and the \textit{licence}, and 106 sentences with a link between the model
name and the \textit{application}. The resulting resource is relevant for LLM
card illustrations using relational knowledge graphs. Our code and findings can
contribute to automatic LLM card generation. Data and code in
\textsc{autoLLM-Card} will be shared and freely available at
\url{