# A Survey on Biomedical Text Summarization with Pre-trained Language Model

链接: http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.08763v1

原文摘要:
The exponential growth of biomedical texts such as biomedical literature and
electronic health records (EHRs), poses a significant challenge for clinicians
and researchers to access clinical information efficiently. To tackle this
challenge, biomedical text summarization (BTS) has been proposed as a solution
to support clinical information retrieval and management. BTS aims at
generating concise summaries that distill key information from single or
multiple biomedical documents. In recent years, the rapid advancement of
fundamental natural language processing (NLP) techniques, from pre-trained
language models (PLMs) to large language models (LLMs), has greatly facilitated
the progress of BTS. This growth has led to numerous proposed summarization
methods, datasets, and evaluation metrics, raising the need for a comprehensive
and up-to-date survey for BTS. In this paper, we present a systematic review of
recent advancements in BTS, leveraging cutting-edge NLP techniques from PLMs to
LLMs, to help understand the latest progress, challenges, and future
directions. We begin by introducing the foundational concepts of BTS, PLMs and
LLMs, followed by an in-depth review of available datasets, recent approaches,
and evaluation metrics in BTS. We finally discuss existing challenges and
promising future directions in the era of LLMs. To facilitate the research
community, we line up open resources including available datasets, recent
approaches, codes, evaluation metrics, and the leaderboard in a public project:
